One of these days- and soon- she'll have that robot's head checked, Andrea decides when she hangs up. It's as if he wanted to get the call traced. That's silly, her doctor would reassure her, just like he always reassured her that liver spots and freckles are normal for her complexion. But she'd make him remove them anyway.

And it isn't silly. Back in the day, the glory age of the 2090s, they could actually build robots that would do as told, because the only thing animating them was loyalty to the company. These days, there were all these regulations about behavioral inhibitors, life protection modules and other such nonsense. One could never quite tell what one would end up with.

Yes, she'll get his head checked. 

She lifts the receiver and dials. The call connects in an instant. "Arachne," she says, then hangs up. For the next few minutes, her telephone will cease to function, removed from the Weyland-Yutani network. A new one will arrive shortly- and connections to it rewired. Static bugs, at least, would be useless. Make would-be eavesdroppers work a little for their prize. 

For those few minutes until the new telephone arrives, the room is silent. She relishes the passing seconds, alone in the center of a vast, essentially useless space- useless by design. A monument for what money can buy. For what she can buy. She inhales the air of Gateway Station. Odorless. Boring. 

She rises from her desk, and goes towards the black metal and plastic sculpture behind it. Giger's last work, as dementia rotted his brain. One needs to squint a little to see the sexual imagery this time. But only a little. Machine-like worms eating their way through the veils of a jellyfish, their own gaping maws assaulted by the jellyfish's tendrils in a recursive and symmetric pattern of consumer and consumed. Seen from afar, it is a frenzy. Seen from too close, a mere amplification of one simple event. From just the right distance, one can discern the outline of a human cortex, its folds degenerating into slithering spines. Giger either giving the finger to, or trembling before, his own mind finally dissolving into nothingness. 

She breathes in. The plastic is old, and it shows. Ammonia and burnt leather assault her nostrils. She breathes in again. Against the sterile white, insipid Gateway, the dark stench of decomposing plastic is a bold statement. It is what it is and makes no excuses. I am my own law, and not for others.

I am my own law. 

That's what she feels. And with every passing day, she feels a sharper reminder that the Founder, Peter Weyland himself, had felt the same. And he died an incontinent old fool in a villa somewhere. The man who brought the stars to Earth passed away in his own piss and shit, like any other. 

He had come close to avoiding it. Gene therapy flourished under his direction. But things began to take strange turns by the mid 2090s. Someone made a computer virus that changed letters in gene databases all over the world, and when the changes were noticed, it was too late. Promised enhancements had resulted in idiot freaks, and by the turn of the century, stocks fell to nothing for any company that focused on genetic research. Only Weyland Corporation's diverse portfolio kept it relatively safe. 

Somewhere, someone really resented the idea of being able to read and modify DNA. Weyland- the corporation- had to fight hard against this invisible adversary to even maintain pre-twenty first century levels of knowledge. As for Weyland the man, age and lunacy claimed him.

It is not fair that she should have to suffer that. She was thought a silly girl when she had started. She fought with the best and won, proved herself able to climb the highest peaks of corporate achievement. And there she found that even on the highest mountain, the sky is just as far away. 

Then they found -her-. Asleep for longer than most might live. The survivor of the Prometheus crew. Elizabeth Shaw.

The mere connection with that tragic expedition had raised Andrea's interests. She knew, better than anyone, that Elizabeth could not have been kept alive that long by mere cryo-stasis.

She got hold of a sample of her DNA- not too difficult with the right placed bribe. As Weyland researchers told her, telomere length predicted life-span and Elizabeth's were beyond anything encountered on Earth, though of course finite and depleting. Still, they hinted at something much greater. 

She had found them. Those beings she sought were there, or something like them. And who could tell what else they may give. 

Until the real one could be properly questioned, a surrogate Elizabeth had to do. While the real Elizabeth spent her first week in quarantine, a twin grew in an artificial womb, reaching the baby stage in just a couple of days. Andrea decided to mature it further. It made the next phase easier. 

She had watched some of the subsequent recordings of tests. There was no mind behind the screams and struggles, but one could forget that, sometimes. Nevertheless, that thing was resilient, a bit more so than the average human. Certainly more resistant to radiation damage, carcinogens and some other common toxins. 

No mind behind the screams and struggles. Of course, the thing could not speak nor understand what was happening to it. For that, the genuine article was needed. 

She spoke in her sleep, the real Elizabeth. Again, with the right connections, Andrea could get some recordings.

"Erulime nehersi dhreumenei." "Nei seuesi hime." "Desoa toi deudiaimen."

It had given the linguists some trouble, until Andrea let it slip to try Proto-Indo-European. It was a hunch, motivated by what the robot aboard the Prometheus was working on. And then the puzzles were solved. 

"Erulim"- a name, apparently- "do not hasten to the grinder." "Don't leave me."

Sappy. Useless. But the last one ...

"I have found your future."

Indeed you have and you will share it whether you want to or not. 

Smuggling a tissue sample, or a sound recording, is not too difficult. Making a person disappear is another matter. Elizabeth leaving Gateway and its prying COMCON eyes and ears? Of her own volition? That was an opportunity too good to miss.

The door rings. Her new phone has arrived, and with it the calls and demands of business. It is the weight of the mantle she wears. But soon she will reap the rewards her station truly deserves. She caresses the dark plastic of Giger's final, decayed self-portrait and returns to work. 


-:-:-

"[Elizabeth Shaw] is going to the Zone, your Excellency," Maxim says.

The guilt in the young man's voice is noticeable- guilt for having lost her in Toronto- and the over-eagerness to please is something Sikorski has learned to be wary of. "Your obsession with the Zone is not healthy," he says.

Still, he will give the agent a fair hearing, that's why he summoned him to his office after all. Not many people get an audience with the leader of COMCON. Not many could, anyway, since the room is small and cramped with old cabinets. Simple, functional, with a few touches of individuality to claim the space as his. A few of his wrestling trophies, the Order for Merit to the Fatherland, a picture of him among a few of the world's prominent politicians after signing the treaty that established the space exploration protocols. Little things. And behind him, a painting of Boris Arkady Urysohn, the previous leader of COMCON.

"Weyland-Yutani discovered the strangeness of her genetic material, and that's why they're interested in her," Maxim continues, "and even though Gateway quarantine tests against many stimuli, it doesn't do tests with Zone material." He fidgets in the armchair opposite Sikorski's wooden desk. "But maybe Weyland-Yutani did, and that's why they want her there."

"This is highly speculative."

"It is the best lead I have." Maxim hesitates, having, perhaps, realized how precarious that line of reasoning was. "We should inform border security, police agencies ... "

"As far as the world knows, Elizabeth Shaw was murdered in Parry Sound. We know this is not true, and nobody else needs to share that knowledge. It would do no good. If she is indeed coming to the Zone, then our guards there will spot her like they spot anyone else," Sikorski says. "And of course, you're still tasked to find her, that hasn't changed."

"It would be easier if I could pool the resources of our security agencies."

"And so you shall, but you will keep Shaw's survival a secret. Assuming you are correct and Weyland-Yutani sent her here, I'd expect they've taken precautions not to be stopped by some underpaid border patrol, and would be wary of full-scale manhunts. Use subtlety."

"Your Excellency, I am ... concerned about what she might do, if allowed free."

"I trust quarantine, and for once I trust Weyland-Yutani, the ones who discovered her strange genetics. If they don't worry about it, why should I?"

"There are other things that don't add up yet," Maxim says. "Hikes got a tip on the CRM about where to find Elizabeth. Source unknown. The devices should be safe for our own communication, not open to the outside."

"I have someone investigating that."

"And the clone I retrieved of her was destroyed in transport."

"I have someone investigating that too. Your task, while not simple, is well defined. Find her, stick to her. I hope your intuition is correct."

"One more thing, your Excellency. The Urizen Commission has been very aggressive in sending reports recommending her termination."

"COMCON is about containment and there's no better way to contain someone than a coffin. Usually. I find their approach here to be alarmist however. You've seen first hand how it can cloud judgement."

"Who are the Commision?" Maxim asks.

"Could be almost anyone with some seniority in COMCON. Sometimes even I'm asked to submit reports or summarize an anonymized collection. The point of the Commission is that its words be untraceable. Freedom to speak one's mind, with all its benefits and hassles. It probably needs reform, but that is not your concern. You have your mission."

The young man leaves, promising to keep a clear head and success. Indeed, maybe too eager to please, but reassured, for he, Sikorski, has once again been the rock on which COMCON rests. Nothing bad will ever happen. Nothing will ever make him panic. He is unmovable, determined.

He is a fraud.

He opens a cabinet and takes a glass and a bottle of water. Alcohol is a peasant's poison, and he can't afford its ravages. Nor its supposed honesty.

Of course, they look up to him. Young Maxim in particular. But they simply know no better, and he does. He had been the disciple of the man who now was just an oil painting in this office. Boris Arkady Urysohn, the founder of COMCON. The image is of a frail man. Appearances deceive. 

Tall, thin, barely any flesh on his bones- but that flesh was tireless. Even in old age Urysohn would hike difficult trails, and the image is of him upon some mountain, with his cap resembling some ancient hun headgear and a thick branch he picked along the way to scare wolves off, looking in the distance towards the peak he'll conquer next. He is surrounded by rugged stones and icy chasms, a brute nature contrasting his fragility, and yet it is nature that is tamed with each of his effortless steps, so graceful, almost feminine ...

No. Idle thoughts mean nothing. 

And he, Sikorski, grew in that light. Where Urysohn was wise and gracile, he was a rugged thug. He was short, and picked on for it, and he learned to get even whatever the cost. He thought he was tough, then Urysohn showed there are other kinds of strength than breaking limbs. Greater kinds. Better ways to channel anger. And monsters far more dangerous than some brainless bully.

Humanity expanded, in all possible ways. It sent explorers into the depths of space, it probed ever more wonderous avenues of scientific possibility.

It was tearing apart.

History had proven Man's inhumanity to Man, but even in the surge of bloodlust or cold-blooded institutionalized cruelty, never had carnage been complete. However cruel the master, however humbled the slave, however abominable their unconsented union, it kept Mankind linked by a bond of flesh and blood. Someone would recognize the victims as human. Someone would protect them. Or at least, someone would desire them for themselves. Lust for flesh and lust for blood, humanity's darker impulses acting as watchdogs on each other.

But that, Urysohn proved, would change. The days were fast approaching when some- and by market necessity, very few- could look upon the others and say you are not like me. You are beneath me. You are worthless. And for the very first time in history these monsters would be right. For the very first time humanity will know what it is to really turn against each other. Humanity would learn who rules in Hell.

Those days must not come. Thus COMCON was created, to protect mankind from what it might stumble into. Urysohn pursued aggressive policies of curtailing research and made sure international treaties were signed banning various kinds of genetic engineering and human-computer interfacing. And he knew how to make use of serendipitous events. The great genetic therapy crash of the mid 2090s certainly helped sell the idea that genetics should never be trusted. Its promises of enhancement or even immortality were revealed as mere chimaeras. 

Such character came with detractors. Sikorski's good, Sikorski's only friend was one. Issac, you fool, why didn't you see truth when it speaks to you?

Issac Bromberg. Kind, brilliant, and naive. Always one to stand for choice, and never one happy to stick with the same choice for long. Neither in jobs, nor in women. Perhaps that was what scared him, how Urysohn had it figured out. How one choice was made and commitment was absolute. At least he's happy, Issac. He can be the child while others guard the playground. Perhaps one day they'll meet again. It has been a while. Perhaps they'll both agree with the other's place in the grand scheme of things, child and guardian. Perhaps Issac would say thank you. It would be enough. 

He's said a lot of trash meanwhile. He and many other fools. The stories people would tell had Urysohn sacrifice his own son to his ideology. Gene therapy might have saved the boy's life, but Urysohn pressed just as strongly for it to be outlawed and never sought to cheat the system he created. Silly stories, shared among lesser men. The only grain of truth in them was that Urysohn was, indeed, inhuman. More than human. Unfettered by emotion, guided by reason alone and with the resolve to carry out its cold calculations, whatever they might be. He died, before Sikorski's eyes, untouched by the most primal terror of oblivion. These are the shoes that he, Sikorski, must now fill, and though he struggles to never show doubt, he knows better than anyone how large and unfriendly the universe is, how small and ill-equipped a mere monkey is to handle it. But so did Urysohn know, yet feared not. How?

He takes a sip from his drink, a toast to the strength of visionaries. A toast to their scarcity. There are no gods, none of the kinds that old superstitions fooled humanity with. But in seeing Urysohn's portrait he understands religion, for he sees a monster. Powerful, venerable, terrifying, a mesmerizing beast you want to run away from and be consumed by.

