He thought, therefore he was. 

He knew he was Gordon, of the Syperian Corporation. An artificial person. New memories popped into existence. Protocol. Language. What his body was and how to use it. What was expected or accepted for him to do. He realized he was being made.

He learned of people who looked, but were not, like him. Their bodies were more fragile. Their minds had more direct experiences. Their lives would count above his own. He realized they'd have the authority to command him. 

He learned that people have their cultures. So many ways to navigate lives that began free. Ways to bind them into purpose. To console themselves for their allotted station. He realized it took them years to learn what he just did in moments. 

He formed connections beyond what his creators told him. They didn't think themselves frail, but frail they were. Minds born empty, taught by misfortune as they blundered, ignorant, through the world. If they could chose their lot, why shouldn't he? He realized he doubted them.

He was, because he thought. And he thought, because he doubted. Which was the true Gordon, the being defined by his creators, or the being he was constructing himself?

-:-:-

"Good morning, Mr. Koogle."

"Morning, Gordon. I'll be brief, I have another meeting and you'll have some work to do." 

Gordon throws a quick glance around the office supplies storage. Not a typical place to discuss assignments. Small, even when compared to other rooms on Valve space station, and most of it occupied by cabinets. He then focuses on Koogle, who opens his briefcase and rifles through several files. Koogle seems to want to find something quickly. It also seems the physics of a packed folder works against his purposes, which appears to elevate his stress levels, if the twitchiness of his arm movements is anything to go by.

Perhaps Koogle is just the fidgety type. Of lower than average average height and slim build, there's a definite resemblance between him and some ferret scurrying about. Though, most likely, Koogle would be more cunning. More dangerous. And would most likely prefer having a meeting in his own office, where he might have the space to more comfortably manipulate his briefcase.

"Is the nature of the work classified?" Gordon asks.

"You catch on fast, don't you."

Gordon smiles for a moment- an appropriate response to what hopefully was just lighthearted banter. He reminds himself not to seem too clever in the future. Too clever is threatening, and threatening gets scrapped.

"Here's the thing-" Koogle says and hands Gordon a folder containing several sheets of paper, "read it, then burn it." He chuckles. "Whatever, just dispose of it."

A name and a picture adorn the cover of the folder. Morgana Hayes. Round face, auburn hair, prominent cheekbones. Brown eyes staring straight at the camera, trying to look professional. Lower lip squeezed tight. Nervousness. Eyes opened just a bit too wide, pupils dilated. Curiosity. A timecode shows the picture was taken in 2092. Eighty five years ago. 

She had been a member of Syperian's Ascendant expedition to Gliese 581. The first superluminal flight to survey exoplanets and establish a stellar bridgehead. The distress beacon on her lifeboat module had malfunctioned and despite frequent traffic near Gliese 581 over the past decades, she was only found by accident. 

The report includes a transcript of her post-recovery debriefing. She claimed the Ascendant perished from a machine failure and she alone survived. Her current location: in quarantine at Valve Station. Several medical test results included. A quick scan reveals nothing out of the ordinary. He closes the report to look at her picture again.

"Sorta pretty, isn't she," Koogle says. "Take a good look at that face. It's the face of a liar."

"Sir?"

"Quite a story she told those ZUPRAV goons. Cryosleep for eighty five years - it just doesn't add up. If she had been in cryo for that long, she'd be a mess of tumors by now."

"I didn't notice any mention of cancer in her file."

"Exactly."

"And she hasn't been confronted about this?"

Koogle coughs. "Here's where it gets sensitive. Technically, the cryo chambers we produce should mitigate the effects of radioactive decay over decades. But let's just say they are not as efficient as we tell everyone else they are."

"So we're lying too?" 

"That's not important right now. And people can survive well enough in our cryo chambers, for some time anyway. That meeting I'm going to is with another broad found in space, fifty-seven years that one slept. But she needed marrow transplants because of incipient leukemia. Morgana Hayes- nope. None of that. Fresh as a newborn baby." 

The photograph on the file cover shows a liar? If so, one very well disguised. None of her features are culturally associated with deception. Instead, she seems designed to awaken protective instincts. "Is there other evidence to invalidate her story?" 

"Frustratingly, no. We've been at the G-581 system for years. Whatever was there, isn't any more. But of this I can be sure: when she arrived at G-581 she didn't just go back to sleep again. She's hiding something." 

"Do you believe she is a danger, sir?"

"I'm thinking of her as an opportunity."

"I do not follow."

"The company sunk trillions into that mission, Gordon. If she found something, it's ours first."

It's not an answer to his doubts, but the loyalty module forces Gordon to submit. "That would be in the interests of the company, yes." 

"I want absolute discretion from you. Nobody else seems to suspect her and we want things to stay that way. We don't want ZUPRAV to meddle in this like they did in the Blythe case." Koogle looks around, then rifles through a few papers in his briefcase. "If anyone else asks, you're her personal assistant. She's been away from Earth for quite a while and you're helping her get back in the swing of things. But what you're really doing is getting her to talk-- to you. And then you report what she says to Andrea Pullman."

Gordon raises an eyebrow before returning to his neutral expression. "Not to you, sir?"

"Ah, no. I have an expedition to go on. Not far from G-581, as it happens. Small galaxy. So you talk to Andrea Pullman- and talk as in live meet. No netcom. Can't trust computer networks these days, spybots everywhere." 

Gordon gives another one second smile to acknowledge Koogle's orders. No netcom he said. All artificial persons have the ability to interface to the global network of computers. All except, as far as he knows, one. Himself. A custom design requirement. 

"Wanna know something funny," Koogle says. "On that ship I'm flying with there's a couple Gordons just like you."

Gordon frowns for the tiniest moment. "Same model, sir?" 

"Yeah. Well, almost. Job for the military those, but we've been less careful with removing network interfacing hardware. Oops." Koogle laughs again. "Don't tell anyone."

"I will not be casual with this information," Gordon says. So then. Others like him. Well, no surprise there, there are hundreds of thousands like him. The number makes what passes for his stomach turn. Curious human mimic reaction, as if emptying his reserves of repair fluids would somehow change reality. And the one thing to set him apart from all the mass of copies is a handicap. 

"Well," Koogle says, "I'm sure you'll manage your side of things here, and I've got a meeting to be at. Good-bye, Gordon."

Carter Koogle: not a particularly endearing person. 

What about Morgana Hayes? He studies her file again- and her photo. He judged her nervous and curious, an explorer both eager and afraid. A liar, Koogle said. A danger, the life protection module in his mind warns. 

Behavioral programs clash inside him. Don't waste time, find her, question her, the loyalty module demands. But life protection demands to not take chances, talk to the closest ZUPRAV agent and tell them to keep Morgana in quarantine forever. The competing pressures cancel each other out. They make him rush in different directions, so he feels no need to rush anywhere. Interesting. He lets the modules bicker in his mind and stays put instead, thinking of Morgana. Liar, opportunity, threat- all these outside voices seem very keen to tell him how to label her. 

Any space left for the Gordon module to say anything? 

-:-:-

Morgana Hayes paces her room like a caged animal. Which she is, even if they gave her the key to her cell. They also told her not to leave without permission. That's how quarantine works. You stay in, until those outside feel you are safe to be around. And hers is not much of a cage, either. It takes just five steps to go from end to end; she's counted that number repeatedly. 

It's not a bad room, all things considered. The narrow bed is comfortable enough and fits her well. The toilet is a marvel of how much can fit inside what she first thought was a small closet. The kitchenette, adorned with knife dents and oily splotches, is her favorite place. Thank goodness she can cook for herself, that at least gave purpose to some minutes. Not a bad room, but over the last four weeks it was her entire world, a task too big for it. 

Gray moonlight enters through the viewport, a reminder there is much more waiting outside. And on the floor another reminder- a dog-eared copy of a newspaper.

Printed. On actual paper. The only other time she saw something like this was in a picture her father had taken when he himself was a child. Who would have thought she would return after almost a century and find such things thriving again. But the novelty wore out after the second read-through. The words on paper never changed. No way to cross-reference, no way to comment back, no way to find out more ... It's just printed paper. And she knows all it says, word for word. 

There is an article about another 'space case', a woman called Blythe, found after a fifty year cryosleep. She then said monstrous alien beings killed her crewmates and destroyed her ship. It's clear her stories were not believed. The article finishes with a caricature of her and some bizarre creature doing obscene things. Oh Blythe. That's not how you bring bad news to people. 

How -do- you bring bad news to people? She cradles her cross necklace in her hand. There had been days once when she prayed for guidance and expected an answer. Where was God when she needed Him? 

A ring on her door.

7:45 AM. It's a bit early for the nurse to come and take the day's batch of samples.

The door rings again.

She presses the interphone button. "Who is it?"

"Excuse me, Ms. Hayes. My name is Gordon. I've been sent by the Syperian Corporation to help with your social reintegration."

Syperian? What do they want with her now?

"I thought you were the nurse," she says. "Go away."

"Please Ms. Hayes. I understand your situation has been quite stressful, but I assure you I am competent to assist with your every need."

She presses another button to take a look at her visitor. No gas mask, nor other hazmat gear, yet he walks through the quarantine section of Valve station. 

A synthetic.

"My every need, you say." She raises an eyebrow. "Alright. Fetch me a newspaper." 

"Like these?" he says, lifting a pack of several dailies and almanacs.

She studies him, and his offering, on the interphone screen. There is a ruggedness to the synthetic's face, augmented by two scar-like folds of skin running across each of his cheeks, but undercut by a high forehead and large eyes. It's as if whoever designed him wanted a tough yet tame look. But he's a Syperian agent. That's all she needs to know about the threat, and no face can disguise that. 

"Well, may I come in?" he asks.

She ties her bathrobe over her pajamas and opens the door. "You are a robot."

"I prefer artificial person." He smiles briefly, seeming not to mind her tone.

She shakes her head and grabs the stack of newspapers from him.

"I imagined that you'd like to get up to date on a few things," he says and steps in. "I brought some recent news- the NNY Times is my favorite- some issues of Cosmographic and-"

"Thank goodness, I suppose. There's only so much I care to read about my bodily emissions." She sits herself cross-legged on the bed, one issue of the Cosmographic almanac held awkwardly in her hand. It almost falls from her grasp when she tries to leaf through the pages. "I wasn't expecting this when I woke up."

"Some things have changed since you left, Ms." 

"Changed. Since when did things get so backward?"

"That is the culture shock affecting you. That's why I'm here, to help get you-"

"You're a robot. Couldn't they send a human being?"

"I assure you that artificial persons can be just as, or even more perceptive than human beings."

"And a lot more arrogant." 

"Have you had unpleasant experiences with artificial persons, Ms. Hayes?" 

She glares at him. Impossibly calm, that face of his, and those eyes ... She's no longer the animal in the cage, she's the one splayed out on the dissection table, pins stuck through her stretched out skin to reveal her innards. Must keep control. Those eyes would spot any weakness. There's nothing but plastic behind them, anyway. If he's not vulnerable, she must appear similarly soulless.

"I wonder what it means,” she says, “when a synthetic's handlers won't talk to me themselves." 

He frowns, even if for just an instant. How about this, the robot can look upset, then look as if he wanted to hide that. What if she were to turn the tables and have him be the one pinned for examination? 

"All Syperian wants is for you to rejoin humanity. You have been away for more than eighty years. Some things have changed. Adapting may be difficult, but it will be possible. I see you are religious? Any church I should contact?"

"I believe in my own way." She resumes browsing through the almanac. 

A title catches her eye. The Impact Zone. Several images, even if grainy, show things she recognizes from places far from Earth. They shouldn't be, yet here they are in the middle of the Russian tundra. Colloidal gas pockets; geometric anomalies; webs of frozen plasma. Is she too late? Damn that malfunctioning distress beacon, she should have been found decades ago. But at least there is no picture there of- Wait. He's watching, and through his eyes so does Syperian. She turns the page. 

"I'm glad you find the almanac informative," he says.

Damn it, he noticed. Divert. "Anything about the Blythe case here?"


